.TH rfedit 1 "January 2014" "Unix filesequence tools" "Render Forever"

.SH "NAME"
\fBrfedit\fR - Edit or filter filesequences.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrfedit\fR [-h] [-1] [--fps \fIframerate\fR] [--tcstart \fIframe\fR] [-TtHLMmposevrxR] [\fIfilesequence_string\fR \fI...\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBrfedit\fR manipulates and filters filesequence strings. If editing causes filenames to change \fBrfedit\fR can output pair of filesequence strings in the format 'original -> modified'. The output of \fBrfedit\fR can be fed to rfbuild(1) which will modify the actual files. Edit flags will be processed in the order they are provided.

.SH "OPTIONS (general)"

.TP 28
\fB-h, --help\fR
display simple help

.TP
\fB-1, --single\fR
Always return the single-column output of modified filenames, omitting possible original filenames.

.TP
\fB--fps\fR
set global framerate (frames per second). Filesequence tools make no assumptions about framerate of filesequence, so it needs to be explicitly set each time timecodes are used. This is usually when frame numbers are displayed as timecode or length of sequence is displayed as timecode.

.TP
\fB--tcstart\fR
set global start of timecode. Timecodes are usually mapped so that frame 0 matches timecode 00:00:00:00. This option can be used to remap timecode 00:00:00:00 to different frame.

.SH "OPTIONS (filtering)"
Filtering options remove entries from input list when match is found. This can mean removing frames from filesequence string or omitting whole sequences.

.TP 28
\fB-T, --truncate\fR \fIstart\fR \fIend\fR
Only frames residing inside provided range will be kept, all the other frames are filtered out.

.TP
\fB-t, --trim\fR \fIhead\fR \fItail\fR
Trim each sequence by provided length from head and tail. Note that there is difference if arguments to --trim are provided as frames or as timecode. --trim 5 5 will remove five first and last filenames of sequence, but --trim 01:00 01:00 will remove one second worth of frames from start and end of sequence. This means that if sequence skips frames the amount of frames removed will be less than 25.

.TP
\fB-H, --head\fR \fIframes\fR
Take N frames from the start of each sequence.

.TP
\fB-L, --tail\fR \fIframes\fR
Take N last frames of each sequence.

.TP
\fB-M, --max\fR \fIframes\fR
Only list sequences that are shorter than N frames.

.TP
\fB-m, --min\fR \fIframes\fR
Only list sequences that are longer than N frames.

.TP
\fB-R, --reorder\fR \fI"3,2,1,4-"\fR
Reorder input sequences based on a comma separated list. List can also contain ranges marked with '-'. To reverse 3 first sequences use "3,2,1,4-". To reverse 9 sequences use "9-1" or simply "9-"


.SH "OPTIONS (modifying)"
Modifying options change sequence name or numbering.

.TP 28
\fB-p, --padding\fR \fIpadding\fR
Force custom padding to all clips.

.TP
\fB-o, --offset\fR \fIframes\fR
Offset clip numbering by N frames. Negative frame amount also accepted. --offset -1 will move sequence from 1-10 to 0-9

.TP
\fB-s, --start\fR \fIframe\fR
Offset sequence to start from provided frame.

.TP
\fB-e, --end\fR \fIframe\fR
Offset sequence to end at provided frame.

.TP
\fB-S, --replace\fR \fIsearch\fR \fIreplace\fR
Search for string A and when found replace with string B. Leave filenumbering untouched.

.TP
\fB-i, --ireplace\fR \fIsearch\fR \fIreplace\fR
Case insensitive search and replace 

.TP
\fB-v, --reverse\fR
Reverse the order and direction of clips in a sequence.

.TP
\fB-r, --reconstruct\fR \fInew_seq\fI
Map input sequences to a new sequence. Can be used to merge multiple input sequences to one long sequence.

.TP
\fB-x, --removegaps\fR
Remove gaps from a sequence by moving frames after the gap earlier.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
let's assume we have following sequences available
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].dpx
.RE
.P

filter out under 5 frame sequences
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack | \fBrfedit\fR --min 5
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx
.RE
.P

Offset all sequences start at frame corresponding to timecode 10:00:00:00 at 25 fps
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack | \fBrfedit\fR --fps 25 --start 10:00:00:00
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx -> five_files/five_files.[900000-900004@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].dpx -> four_files/four_files.[900000-900003@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].dpx -> one_file/one_file.[900000-900000@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx -> six_files/six_files.[900000-900005@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].dpx -> three_files/three_files.[900000-900002@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].dpx -> two_files/two_files.[900000-900001@@@@].dpx
.RE
.P

Make sequences into one combined sequence
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack | \fBrfedit\fR --reconstruct combined_sequence.[0-1000@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[0-4@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[5-8@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[9-9@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[10-15@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[16-18@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].dpx -> combined_sequence.[19-20@@@@].dpx
.RE
.P

Reorder sequences manually from shortest to longest
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack | \fBrfedit\fR --reorder "3,6,5,2,1,4"
.RE
.RS 11
one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx
.RE
.P

Change extension to .jpg. 
.P
.RS
find * | rfpack | \fBrfedit\fR --replace ".dpx" ".jpg"
.RE
.RS 11
one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].dpx -> one_file/one_file.[1-1@@@@].jpg
.RE
.RS 11
two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].dpx -> two_files/two_files.[1-2@@@@].jpg
.RE
.RS 11
three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].dpx -> three_files/three_files.[1-3@@@@].jpg
.RE
.RS 11
four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].dpx -> four_files/four_files.[1-4@@@@].jpg
.RE
.RS 11
five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].dpx -> five_files/five_files.[1-5@@@@].jpg
.RE
.RS 11
six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].dpx -> six_files/six_files.[1-6@@@@].jpg
.RE
.P

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.RS
.BR rfpack(1),
.BR rfunpack(1),
.BR rfformat(1),
.BR rfbuild(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Olli Leppanen, Render Forever